[IMP] general: iot printer troubleshooting (#8574)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/general/iot/config/troubleshooting.rst

             :align: center
             :alt: Receipt format using naming convention: EpsonTMU220B__IMC_LDV_LDH_SCALE35__.

DYMO LabelWriter print issue
----------------------------

The DYMO LabelWriter has a known issue in printing with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.
The OpenPrinting CUPS server will install the printer using :guilabel:`Local RAW Printer` drivers.

> In order to print anything, the correct :guilabel:`Make and Model` needs to be set so that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to print anything, the correct :guilabel:`Make and Model` needs to be set, so the
```

correct driver is referenced when using the device.

Additionally, a new printer needs to be added to reduce a print delay that occurs after updating the
driver.

.. important::
   The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer is the recommended DYMO printer for use with Odoo and the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. It **must** already be connected to, and recognized on, the
   :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box.

>    The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer contains two printers in one: a label printer as well as a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer contains two printers in one: a label printer and a
```

   tape printer. Choosing the correct model (either DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en) or DYMO
   LabelWriter 450 DUO Tape (en)) is crucial when configuring the following processes.

>    To keep things consistent, both of the following processes are the configuration for the DYMO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To keep things consistent, both of the following processes detail the configuration for the DYMO
```

   LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en) model. Change the model when needed.

.. _troubleshooting/dymo/update_drivers:

DYMO LabelWriter not printing
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the case where the DYMO LabelWriter is not printing anything, a new driver needs to be installed.

First, open the OpenPrinting CUPS console by clicking :guilabel:`Printers server` at the bottom of
the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Next, click on :guilabel:`Printers` in the top

> menu. Click into the printer in question and then select :guilabel:`Maintenance` in the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
menu. Click into the printer in question, and select :guilabel:`Maintenance` in the first
```

> First, open the OpenPrinting CUPS console by clicking :guilabel:`Printers server` at the bottom of
> the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Next, click on :guilabel:`Printers` in the top
> menu. Click into the printer in question, and select :guilabel:`Maintenance` in the first drop-down
> menu. Then, select :guilabel:`Modify Printer` in the second drop-down menu.

Reviewer 2: Menuselection :)
```suggestion
First, open the OpenPrinting CUPS console by clicking :menuselection:`Printers server` at the bottom
of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Next, click on :menuselection:`Printers` in
the top menu. Click into the printer in question, and select :guilabel:`Maintenance` in the first
drop-down menu. Then, select :guilabel:`Modify Printer` in the second drop-down menu.
```

.. image:: troubleshooting/main-modify.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Modify the make and model of the DYMO LabelWriter. Maintenance and Modify drop-down menus
         highlighted.

Next, select the specific network connection/printer that the modification should be made on. Click
:guilabel:`Continue`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/modify-select-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Printer selection screen with Continue highlighted.

On the next page, click :guilabel:`Continue` to proceed to set the :guilabel:`Make` of the printer.

.. image:: troubleshooting/modify-printer-dymo.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Printer modification screen with Continue highlighted.

Under :guilabel:`Make` select :guilabel:`DYMO` from the drop-down menu. Click on
:guilabel:`Continue` to set the :guilabel:`Model`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/setting-make.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Setting the make page, with DYMO and continue highlighted.

On the following page, set the :guilabel:`Model` to :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en)`
(or whichever DYMO printer model is being used). Click on :guilabel:`Modify Printer` to complete

> setting the new driver, a confirmation page will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
setting the new driver, a confirmation page appears.
```

.. image:: troubleshooting/setting-model.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Setting the printer model page with DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en) highlighted.

After being redirected to a confirmation page, acknowledging a successful update, click on the

> :guilabel:`Printers` button in the top menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Printers` button in the top menu.
```

All the printers installed on the OpenPrinting CUPS server appear, including the newly updated:
:guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label` (or whichever DYMO printer model is being used). Click
into the printer that was just updated.

To print a test label, click on the :guilabel:`Maintenance` drop-down menu to the left of the
:guilabel:`Administration` drop-down menu, and select :guilabel:`Print Test Page`. The test label

> will print out with a ten-second delay if the driver update was successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prints out with a ten-second delay, if the driver update was successful.
```

.. image:: troubleshooting/print-test.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Printing a test page from the administration drop-down menu in the OpenPrinting CUPs
         server.

> To reduce this delay a new printer will need to be added, follow the process below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce this delay, a new printer **must** be added. To add a new printer, follow the process below.
```

DYMO LabelWriter print delay
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To resolve the delay issue after modifying the driver, the printer must be reinstalled. First, open

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve the delay issue after modifying the driver, the printer **must** be reinstalled. To reinstall the printer, open
```

> the OpenPrinting CUPS administration page by clicking :guilabel:`Printers server` at the bottom of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the OpenPrinting CUPS administration page by clicking :guilabel:`Printers server`, at the bottom of
```

> the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Then click on :guilabel:`Administration` in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Then, click on :guilabel:`Administration` in the
```

> :guilabel:`Printers server`, at the bottom of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage.
> Then, click on :guilabel:`Administration` in the top menu, then click :guilabel:`Add a Printer`.

Reviewer 2: Suggesting to use menuselection here since were directing the user through menus :)
```suggestion
::menuselection:`Printers server`, at the bottom of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box
homepage. Then, click on :menuselection:`Administration` in the top menu, then click :guilabel:`Add
a Printer`.
```

> top menu, and then finally click :guilabel:`Add a Printer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
top menu, then click :guilabel:`Add a Printer`.
```

.. tip::

>    If the DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer is not printing at all or is not recognizable (has a RAW

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If the DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer is not printing at all, or is not recognizable (has a RAW
```

   driver type), then update the drivers on the device. See
   :ref:`troubleshooting/dymo/update_drivers`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/add-printer-dymo.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a printer button highlighted on the Printer CUPS management page.

On the next screen, in the :guilabel:`Local Printers` section, select the :guilabel:`DYMO

> LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label)` (or whichever DYMO printer model is

Reviewer 2: Just double checking that the same text outside the parenthesis are inside "(DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label)", is this like that in the UI?

Author: Yes this is in the UI

![modify-select-printer](https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/91896312/f4b6b008-de6c-4f5e-aacf-8391f76efca6)

being used) pre-installed printer. Click :guilabel:`Continue`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/local-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a printer screen on OpenPrinting CUPS with DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label highlighted.

On the following screen, modify the :guilabel:`Name` to something recognizable, as the original
printer will still be present. Click :guilabel:`Continue` to be taken to the next screen.

.. image:: troubleshooting/rename-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Rename printer page in the 'Add a Printer' flow, with the name field highlighted.

Next, choose the :guilabel:`Model`. Select :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en)` (or
whichever DYMO printer model is being used), and finally, click :guilabel:`Add Printer` to complete
the installation.

.. image:: troubleshooting/choose-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Choose model screen on the OpenPrinting CUPS console with model and add a printer
         highlighted.

After being redirected to a confirmation page, acknowledging a successful installation, click on the

> :guilabel:`Printers` button in the top menu.

Reviewer 2: Again suggesting to use menuselection when directing the user :)
```suggestion
:menuselection:`Printers` button in the top menu.
```

             :align: center
             :alt: Receipt format using naming convention: EpsonTMU220B__IMC_LDV_LDH_SCALE35__.

> DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO print delay

Reviewer 3: Note that I am not sure if it impacts other DYMO printers, might be better to be more generic and tell that the 450 DUO is the one that we support and on which it was tested on

----------------------------

The DYMO LabelWriter (450 DUO) has a known issue in printing with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of

> Things)` box while using the label function. To resolve this issue, the printer must be reinstalled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things)` box, while using the label function. To resolve this issue, the printer must be reinstalled.
```

> box while using the label function. This is due to the printer being set up as a *Local RAW

Reviewer 3: technically false. If you check back the video it does not print at all if the raw driver is used (which is the default one set when cups detect the printer

> First, open the OpenPrinting CUPS administration page from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, open the :guilabel:`OpenPrinting CUPS` administration page from the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box
```
if this is how it appears on the interface, use this GUI -- if not, feel free to ignore this suggestion

> homepage and click :guilabel:`Add a Printer`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
homepage, and click :guilabel:`Add a Printer`.
```

.. important::

>    The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer must already be connected and installed on the :abbr:`IoT

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer **must** already be connected and installed on the :abbr:`IoT
```

   (Internet of Things)` box.

.. image:: troubleshooting/add-printer-dymo.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: Add a printer button highlighted on the Printer CUPS management page.

Reviewer 3: same remark as the previous one, the printer is automatically seen with cups (as long as it is connected to the IoT box) & the "raw" driver is automatically given to it. You don't need to add it manually

> From the :guilabel:`Local Printers` section select the :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
From the :guilabel:`Local Printers` section, select the :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label
```

(DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label)` pre-installed printer. Click :guilabel:`Continue`.

.. image:: troubleshooting/local-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Add a printer screen on OpenPrinting CUPS with DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label highlighted.

> On the following screen, modify the :guilabel:`Name` to something recognizable as the original

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
On the following screen, modify the :guilabel:`Name` to something recognizable, as the original
```

On the following screen, modify the :guilabel:`Name` to something recognizable, as the original
printer will still be present. Click :guilabel:`Continue` to be taken to the next screen.

.. image:: troubleshooting/rename-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Rename printer page in the 'Add a Printer' flow, with the name field highlighted.

Next, choose the :guilabel:`Model`. Select :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label (en)`, and
finally, click :guilabel:`Add Printer` to complete the installation.

.. image:: troubleshooting/choose-printer.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Choose model screen on the OpenPrinting CUPS console with model and add a printer
         highlighted.

After being redirected to a confirmation page, acknowledging a successful installation, click on the
:guilabel:`Printers` button in the top menu.

> All the printers installed on the OpenPrinting CUPS server will appear, including the newly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the printers installed on the OpenPrinting CUPS server appear, including the newly
```

> installed: *DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label*. Click into the *DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label* printer

Reviewer 4: I will defer to Sam on this, but since you are directing the user to click on the specific printer, this might need something other than italics? (possibly backticks?_

Author: @samueljlieber 

Thoughts on this?

Reviewer 2: @tiku-odoo 
If the text "DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label" is visible on the **Printers** page, then it needs a :guilabel:
```
Click into the :guilabel:`DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label` printer...
```
If the text is not visible you can use italics to refer to the object the user clicks that represents the printer.

> installed: *DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label*. Click into the `DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO Label` printer

Reviewer: for both of this label mentions, I'd suggest using a GUI, especially if that's how they appear on the screen/UI

that was just installed.

.. image:: troubleshooting/printer-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Printer page with newly installed printer highlighted.

To print a test label, click on the :guilabel:`Maintenance` drop-down menu to the left of the

> :guilabel:`Administration` drop-down, and select :guilabel:`Print Test Page`. The test label should

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`Administration` drop-down menu, and select :guilabel:`Print Test Page`. The test label should
```

   :align: center

>    :alt: Printer administration page with the administration drop-down menu highlighted.

Reviewer 3: there is no reason to do it (and I don't think it will change anything on the behavior)

> To print a test label click on the :guilabel:`Maintenance` drop-down menu to the left of the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To print a test label, click on the :guilabel:`Maintenance` drop-down menu to the left of the
```

             :align: center
             :alt: Receipt format using naming convention: EpsonTMU220B__IMC_LDV_LDH_SCALE35__.

DYMO LabelWriter print delay
----------------------------

The DYMO LabelWriter (450 DUO) has a known issue in printing with the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of
Things)` box, while using the label function. To resolve this issue, the printer must be
reinstalled. First, open the OpenPrinting CUPS administration page by clicking :guilabel:`Printers
server` at the bottom of the :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box homepage. Then click
:guilabel:`Add a Printer`.

.. important::
   The DYMO LabelWriter 450 DUO printer is the recommended DYMO printer for use with Odoo and the

>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. It **must** already be connected to, and recognized on, the

Author: @lse-odoo 

I've added this into the doc, can you review?

Thanks,
Tim

>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. It **must** already be connected to, and recognized on, the

Reviewer 3: in my opinion it is still misleading, the section itself is called "printer delay" so people for which it does not print at all will already skip the entire section. If you (and the other reviewer) think it is good like this then it's okay for me as you have more experience than me in documentation writing. But I don't really like the way it was modified compared to what I proposed. Maybe having a 3rd opinion from someone neuter who looked at the video can be useful ?

>    :abbr:`IoT (Internet of Things)` box. It **must** already be connected to, and recognized on, the

Author: @lse-odoo 

I updated the process for you according to your video. Can you take another look before I bump this to final review again?

Thanks,
Tim :+1:
